# Woobie

Wrap information in a veil of privacy and security. Woobie is a javascript
protocol for securing communication end-to-end.


## In Progress

**Do not use this for anything serious!**

I'm working on this in my spare time, so there's still lots to do and this is
by no means stable, let alone secure (yet).

So far, I've got two main functions (appropriately named "encrypt" and
"decrypt"), which implement encryption using *AES-256-CBC* + *HMAC-SHA-256*, or
alternatively using *AES-256-GCM*, along with functions for use in a Diffie
Hellman key exchange using *curve25519* for calculating an elliptic curve from a
randomly generated byte array. There are also some helper functions for
converting byte arrays to base64 or hex (and vice versa) as well as compressing
strings with zlib.

- AES and HMAC are implemented using either [crypto](https://nodejs.org/api/crypto.html)
  on Node.js or [Webcrypto](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Crypto_API)
  when in the browser.
- Curve25519 is implemented using [tweetnacl](https://github.com/dchest/tweetnacl-js).
- Base64 conversions are done using [base64-js](https://github.com/beatgammit/base64-js).
- Zlib (de)compression is done using [pako](https://github.com/nodeca/pako).

## Why AES and not something newer like salsa/chacha20 with poly1305 auth?

Well, AES-256 and SHA-256 (as well as curve25519) are pretty well tested and
validated to be pretty darned secure, plus they already have some hardware
optimizations which can be taken advantage of when they are available which will
make apps more responsive.

I *do* want to also include Tweetnacl's salsa20poly1305 implementation as an
option, but I'll be coming back to that later after I've got the basics covered.


## WTF is a Woobie?

In the [1983 Micheal Keaton movie "Mr. Mom"](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0085970/),
the youngest child affectionately called his security blanket a "woobie". This
stuck in my head when trying to think up a name that encapsulated the idea of
"wrap a message in security" as a description of an end-to-end encryption
protocol. Also, nobody else was using it.

Don't let your messages out on the open net without their woobie ;)


## TODO

Lots.

I'd like to implement an abstraction layer for making a "session" or "box" which
could encapsulate the logic for exchanging keys and keeping track of them along
with packing up a message (encrypting it) and sending it to a recipient who
could then open the message (decrypt it). Ideally I'd like to simply execute
`packBox(plainText)` and `openBox(cipherText)` at the application layer and have
this module handle all the details required for that. Not sure what that looks
like yet, but would like to handle crypto protocol logic here, and keep it all
out of the application that's using this.

Once basic crypto is working, I'd like to wrap it all in an extra layer of
post-quantum crypto using lattice algorithms to further bolster the cipher-text
against future (or maybe existing!) quantum computers.
